.TH CODEX_FORK 1 "July 2026" "codex-cli 0.142.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
codex\-fork \- Fork a previous interactive session (picker by default; use \-\-last to fork the most recent)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.EX
Usage: codex fork [OPTIONS] [SESSION_ID] [PROMPT]

.EE
.SH DESCRIPTION
Fork a previous interactive session (picker by default; use \-\-last to fork the most recent)
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.B [SESSION_ID]
Conversation/session id (UUID). When provided, forks this session. If omitted, use \-\-last to pick the most recent recorded session
.TP
.B [PROMPT]
Optional user prompt to start the session
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-config <key=value>
Override a configuration value that would otherwise be loaded from `~/.codex/config.toml`. Use a dotted path (`foo.bar.baz`) to override nested values. The `value` portion is parsed as TOML. If it fails to parse as TOML, the raw string is used as a literal.
.PP
Examples: \- `\-c model="o3"` \- `\-c 'sandbox_permissions=["disk\-full\-read\-access"]'` \- `\-c shell_environment_policy.inherit=all`
.TP
.B \-\-last
Fork the most recent session without showing the picker
.TP
.B \-\-all
Show all sessions (disables cwd filtering and shows CWD column)
.TP
.B \-\-enable <FEATURE>
Enable a feature (repeatable). Equivalent to `\-c features.<name>=true`
.TP
.B \-\-disable <FEATURE>
Disable a feature (repeatable). Equivalent to `\-c features.<name>=false`
.TP
.B \-\-remote <ADDR>
Connect the TUI to a remote app server endpoint.
.PP
Accepted forms: `ws://host:port`, `wss://host:port`, `unix://`, or `unix://PATH`.
.TP
.B \-\-remote\-auth\-token\-env <ENV_VAR>
Name of the environment variable containing the bearer token to send to a remote app server websocket
.TP
.B \-\-strict\-config
Error out when config.toml contains fields that are not recognized by this version of Codex
.TP
.B \-i, \-\-image <FILE>...
Optional image(s) to attach to the initial prompt
.TP
.B \-m, \-\-model <MODEL>
Model the agent should use
.TP
.B \-\-oss
Use open\-source provider
.TP
.B \-\-local\-provider <OSS_PROVIDER>
Specify which local provider to use (lmstudio or ollama). If not specified with \-\-oss, will use config default or show selection
.TP
.B \-p, \-\-profile <CONFIG_PROFILE_V2>
Layer $CODEX_HOME/<name>.config.toml on top of the base user config
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-sandbox <SANDBOX_MODE>
Select the sandbox policy to use when executing model\-generated shell commands
.PP
[possible values: read\-only, workspace\-write, danger\-full\-access]
.TP
.B \-\-dangerously\-bypass\-approvals\-and\-sandbox
Skip all confirmation prompts and execute commands without sandboxing. EXTREMELY DANGEROUS. Intended solely for running in environments that are externally sandboxed
.TP
.B \-\-dangerously\-bypass\-hook\-trust
Run enabled hooks without requiring persisted hook trust for this invocation. DANGEROUS. Intended only for automation that already vets hook sources
.TP
.B \-C, \-\-cd <DIR>
Tell the agent to use the specified directory as its working root
.TP
.B \-\-add\-dir <DIR>
Additional directories that should be writable alongside the primary workspace
.TP
.B \-a, \-\-ask\-for\-approval <APPROVAL_POLICY>
Configure when the model requires human approval before executing a command
.PP
Possible values: \- untrusted:  Only run "trusted" commands (e.g. ls, cat, sed) without asking for user approval. Will escalate to the user if the model proposes a command that is not in the "trusted" set \- on\-failure: DEPRECATED: Run all commands without asking for user approval. Only asks for approval if a command fails to execute, in which case it will escalate to the user to ask for un\-sandboxed execution. Prefer `on\-request` for interactive runs or `never` for non\-interactive runs \- on\-request: The model decides when to ask the user for approval \- never:      Never ask for user approval Execution failures are immediately returned to the model
.TP
.B \-\-search
Enable live web search. When enabled, the native Responses `web_search` tool is available to the model (no per\-call approval)
.TP
.B \-\-no\-alt\-screen
Disable alternate screen mode
.PP
Runs the TUI in inline mode, preserving terminal scrollback history.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Print help (see a summary with '\-h')
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Print version
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR codex (1)
