.TH CODEX_MCP_ADD 1 "July 2026" "codex-cli 0.142.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
codex\-mcp\-add \- Codex CLI command
.SH SYNOPSIS
.EX
Usage: codex mcp add [OPTIONS] <NAME> (\-\-url <URL> | \-\- <COMMAND>...)

.EE
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.B <NAME>
Name for the MCP server configuration
.TP
.B [COMMAND]...
Command to launch the MCP server. Use \-\-url for a streamable HTTP server
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-config <key=value>
Override a configuration value that would otherwise be loaded from `~/.codex/config.toml`. Use a dotted path (`foo.bar.baz`) to override nested values. The `value` portion is parsed as TOML. If it fails to parse as TOML, the raw string is used as a literal.
.PP
Examples: \- `\-c model="o3"` \- `\-c 'sandbox_permissions=["disk\-full\-read\-access"]'` \- `\-c shell_environment_policy.inherit=all`
.TP
.B \-\-env <KEY=VALUE>
Environment variables to set when launching the server. Only valid with stdio servers
.TP
.B \-\-enable <FEATURE>
Enable a feature (repeatable). Equivalent to `\-c features.<name>=true`
.TP
.B \-\-url <URL>
URL for a streamable HTTP MCP server
.TP
.B \-\-bearer\-token\-env\-var <ENV_VAR>
Optional environment variable to read for a bearer token. Only valid with streamable HTTP servers
.TP
.B \-\-disable <FEATURE>
Disable a feature (repeatable). Equivalent to `\-c features.<name>=false`
.TP
.B \-\-oauth\-client\-id <CLIENT_ID>
Optional OAuth client identifier to use for this MCP server
.TP
.B \-\-oauth\-resource <RESOURCE>
Optional OAuth resource parameter to include during MCP login
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Print help (see a summary with '\-h')
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR codex (1),
.BR codex\-mcp (1)
