.TH CODEX 1 "July 2026" "codex-cli 0.142.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
codex \- Codex CLI
.SH SYNOPSIS
.EX
Usage: codex [OPTIONS] [PROMPT]
       codex [OPTIONS] <COMMAND> [ARGS]

.EE
.SH DESCRIPTION
Codex CLI
.PP
If no subcommand is specified, options will be forwarded to the interactive CLI.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B exec
Run Codex non\-interactively [aliases: e]
.TP
.B review
Run a code review non\-interactively
.TP
.B login
Manage login
.TP
.B logout
Remove stored authentication credentials
.TP
.B mcp
Manage external MCP servers for Codex
.TP
.B plugin
Manage Codex plugins
.TP
.B mcp\-server
Start Codex as an MCP server (stdio)
.TP
.B app\-server
[experimental] Run the app server or related tooling
.TP
.B remote\-control
[experimental] Manage the app\-server daemon with remote control enabled
.TP
.B completion
Generate shell completion scripts
.TP
.B update
Update Codex to the latest version
.TP
.B doctor
Diagnose local Codex installation, config, auth, and runtime health
.TP
.B sandbox
Run commands within a Codex\-provided sandbox
.TP
.B debug
Debugging tools
.TP
.B apply
Apply the latest diff produced by Codex agent as a `git apply` to your local working tree [aliases: a]
.TP
.B resume
Resume a previous interactive session (picker by default; use \-\-last to continue the most recent)
.TP
.B archive
Archive a saved session by id or session name
.TP
.B delete
Permanently delete a saved session by id or session name
.TP
.B unarchive
Unarchive a saved session by id or session name
.TP
.B fork
Fork a previous interactive session (picker by default; use \-\-last to fork the most recent)
.TP
.B cloud
[EXPERIMENTAL] Browse tasks from Codex Cloud and apply changes locally
.TP
.B exec\-server
[EXPERIMENTAL] Run the standalone exec\-server service
.TP
.B features
Inspect feature flags
.TP
.B help
Print this message or the help of the given subcommand(s)
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.B [PROMPT]
Optional user prompt to start the session
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-config <key=value>
Override a configuration value that would otherwise be loaded from `~/.codex/config.toml`. Use a dotted path (`foo.bar.baz`) to override nested values. The `value` portion is parsed as TOML. If it fails to parse as TOML, the raw string is used as a literal.
.PP
Examples: \- `\-c model="o3"` \- `\-c 'sandbox_permissions=["disk\-full\-read\-access"]'` \- `\-c shell_environment_policy.inherit=all`
.TP
.B \-\-enable <FEATURE>
Enable a feature (repeatable). Equivalent to `\-c features.<name>=true`
.TP
.B \-\-disable <FEATURE>
Disable a feature (repeatable). Equivalent to `\-c features.<name>=false`
.TP
.B \-\-remote <ADDR>
Connect the TUI to a remote app server endpoint.
.PP
Accepted forms: `ws://host:port`, `wss://host:port`, `unix://`, or `unix://PATH`.
.TP
.B \-\-remote\-auth\-token\-env <ENV_VAR>
Name of the environment variable containing the bearer token to send to a remote app server websocket
.TP
.B \-\-strict\-config
Error out when config.toml contains fields that are not recognized by this version of Codex
.TP
.B \-i, \-\-image <FILE>...
Optional image(s) to attach to the initial prompt
.TP
.B \-m, \-\-model <MODEL>
Model the agent should use
.TP
.B \-\-oss
Use open\-source provider
.TP
.B \-\-local\-provider <OSS_PROVIDER>
Specify which local provider to use (lmstudio or ollama). If not specified with \-\-oss, will use config default or show selection
.TP
.B \-p, \-\-profile <CONFIG_PROFILE_V2>
Layer $CODEX_HOME/<name>.config.toml on top of the base user config
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-sandbox <SANDBOX_MODE>
Select the sandbox policy to use when executing model\-generated shell commands
.PP
[possible values: read\-only, workspace\-write, danger\-full\-access]
.TP
.B \-\-dangerously\-bypass\-approvals\-and\-sandbox
Skip all confirmation prompts and execute commands without sandboxing. EXTREMELY DANGEROUS. Intended solely for running in environments that are externally sandboxed
.TP
.B \-\-dangerously\-bypass\-hook\-trust
Run enabled hooks without requiring persisted hook trust for this invocation. DANGEROUS. Intended only for automation that already vets hook sources
.TP
.B \-C, \-\-cd <DIR>
Tell the agent to use the specified directory as its working root
.TP
.B \-\-add\-dir <DIR>
Additional directories that should be writable alongside the primary workspace
.TP
.B \-a, \-\-ask\-for\-approval <APPROVAL_POLICY>
Configure when the model requires human approval before executing a command
.PP
Possible values: \- untrusted:  Only run "trusted" commands (e.g. ls, cat, sed) without asking for user approval. Will escalate to the user if the model proposes a command that is not in the "trusted" set \- on\-failure: DEPRECATED: Run all commands without asking for user approval. Only asks for approval if a command fails to execute, in which case it will escalate to the user to ask for un\-sandboxed execution. Prefer `on\-request` for interactive runs or `never` for non\-interactive runs \- on\-request: The model decides when to ask the user for approval \- never:      Never ask for user approval Execution failures are immediately returned to the model
.TP
.B \-\-search
Enable live web search. When enabled, the native Responses `web_search` tool is available to the model (no per\-call approval)
.TP
.B \-\-no\-alt\-screen
Disable alternate screen mode
.PP
Runs the TUI in inline mode, preserving terminal scrollback history.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Print help (see a summary with '\-h')
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Print version
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR codex\-exec (1),
.BR codex\-review (1),
.BR codex\-login (1),
.BR codex\-logout (1),
.BR codex\-mcp (1),
.BR codex\-plugin (1),
.BR codex\-mcp\-server (1),
.BR codex\-app\-server (1),
.BR codex\-remote\-control (1),
.BR codex\-completion (1),
.BR codex\-update (1),
.BR codex\-doctor (1),
.BR codex\-sandbox (1),
.BR codex\-debug (1),
.BR codex\-apply (1),
.BR codex\-resume (1),
.BR codex\-archive (1),
.BR codex\-delete (1),
.BR codex\-unarchive (1),
.BR codex\-fork (1),
.BR codex\-cloud (1),
.BR codex\-exec\-server (1),
.BR codex\-features (1)
