.TH CODEX_EXEC_RESUME 1 "July 2026" "codex-cli 0.142.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
codex\-exec\-resume \- Resume a previous session by id or pick the most recent with \-\-last
.SH SYNOPSIS
.EX
Usage: codex exec resume [OPTIONS] [SESSION_ID] [PROMPT]

.EE
.SH DESCRIPTION
Resume a previous session by id or pick the most recent with \-\-last
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.B [SESSION_ID]
Conversation/session id (UUID) or thread name. UUIDs take precedence if it parses. If omitted, use \-\-last to pick the most recent recorded session
.TP
.B [PROMPT]
Prompt to send after resuming the session. If `\-` is used, read from stdin
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-config <key=value>
Override a configuration value that would otherwise be loaded from `~/.codex/config.toml`. Use a dotted path (`foo.bar.baz`) to override nested values. The `value` portion is parsed as TOML. If it fails to parse as TOML, the raw string is used as a literal.
.PP
Examples: \- `\-c model="o3"` \- `\-c 'sandbox_permissions=["disk\-full\-read\-access"]'` \- `\-c shell_environment_policy.inherit=all`
.TP
.B \-\-last
Resume the most recent recorded session (newest) without specifying an id
.TP
.B \-\-all
Show all sessions (disables cwd filtering)
.TP
.B \-\-enable <FEATURE>
Enable a feature (repeatable). Equivalent to `\-c features.<name>=true`
.TP
.B \-\-disable <FEATURE>
Disable a feature (repeatable). Equivalent to `\-c features.<name>=false`
.TP
.B \-i, \-\-image <FILE>
Optional image(s) to attach to the prompt sent after resuming
.TP
.B \-\-strict\-config
Error out when config.toml contains fields that are not recognized by this version of Codex
.TP
.B \-m, \-\-model <MODEL>
Model the agent should use
.TP
.B \-\-dangerously\-bypass\-approvals\-and\-sandbox
Skip all confirmation prompts and execute commands without sandboxing. EXTREMELY DANGEROUS. Intended solely for running in environments that are externally sandboxed
.TP
.B \-\-dangerously\-bypass\-hook\-trust
Run enabled hooks without requiring persisted hook trust for this invocation. DANGEROUS. Intended only for automation that already vets hook sources
.TP
.B \-\-skip\-git\-repo\-check
Allow running Codex outside a Git repository
.TP
.B \-\-ephemeral
Run without persisting session files to disk
.TP
.B \-\-ignore\-user\-config
Do not load `$CODEX_HOME/config.toml`; auth still uses `CODEX_HOME`
.TP
.B \-\-ignore\-rules
Do not load user or project execpolicy `.rules` files
.TP
.B \-\-output\-schema <FILE>
Path to a JSON Schema file describing the model's final response shape
.TP
.B \-\-json
Print events to stdout as JSONL
.TP
.B \-o, \-\-output\-last\-message <FILE>
Specifies file where the last message from the agent should be written
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Print help (see a summary with '\-h')
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR codex (1),
.BR codex\-exec (1)
