.TH CODEX_APP_SERVER 1 "July 2026" "codex-cli 0.142.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
codex\-app\-server \- [experimental] Run the app server or related tooling
.SH SYNOPSIS
.EX
Usage: codex app\-server [OPTIONS] [COMMAND]

.EE
.SH DESCRIPTION
[experimental] Run the app server or related tooling
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B daemon
Manage the local app\-server daemon
.TP
.B proxy
Proxy stdio bytes to the running app\-server control socket
.TP
.B generate\-ts
[experimental] Generate TypeScript bindings for the app server protocol
.TP
.B generate\-json\-schema
[experimental] Generate JSON Schema for the app server protocol
.TP
.B help
Print this message or the help of the given subcommand(s)
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-config <key=value>
Override a configuration value that would otherwise be loaded from `~/.codex/config.toml`. Use a dotted path (`foo.bar.baz`) to override nested values. The `value` portion is parsed as TOML. If it fails to parse as TOML, the raw string is used as a literal.
.PP
Examples: \- `\-c model="o3"` \- `\-c 'sandbox_permissions=["disk\-full\-read\-access"]'` \- `\-c shell_environment_policy.inherit=all`
.TP
.B \-\-enable <FEATURE>
Enable a feature (repeatable). Equivalent to `\-c features.<name>=true`
.TP
.B \-\-disable <FEATURE>
Disable a feature (repeatable). Equivalent to `\-c features.<name>=false`
.TP
.B \-\-strict\-config
Error out when config.toml contains fields that are not recognized by this version of Codex
.TP
.B \-\-listen <URL>
Transport endpoint URL. Supported values: `stdio://` (default), `unix://`, `unix://PATH`, `ws://IP:PORT`, `off`
.PP
[default: stdio://]
.TP
.B \-\-stdio
Use stdio as the transport (equivalent to `\-\-listen stdio://`)
.TP
.B \-\-analytics\-default\-enabled
Controls whether analytics are enabled by default.
.PP
Analytics are disabled by default for app\-server. Users have to explicitly opt in via the `analytics` section in the config.toml file.
.PP
However, for first\-party use cases like the VSCode IDE extension, we default analytics to be enabled by default by setting this flag. Users can still opt out by setting this in their config.toml:
.PP
```toml [analytics] enabled = false ```
.PP
See https://developers.openai.com/codex/config\-advanced/#metrics for more details.
.TP
.B \-\-ws\-auth <MODE>
Websocket auth mode for non\-loopback listeners
.PP
[possible values: capability\-token, signed\-bearer\-token]
.TP
.B \-\-ws\-token\-file <PATH>
Absolute path to the capability\-token file
.TP
.B \-\-ws\-token\-sha256 <HEX>
Hex\-encoded SHA\-256 digest of the capability token
.TP
.B \-\-ws\-shared\-secret\-file <PATH>
Absolute path to the shared secret file for signed JWT bearer tokens
.TP
.B \-\-ws\-issuer <ISSUER>
Expected issuer for signed JWT bearer tokens
.TP
.B \-\-ws\-audience <AUDIENCE>
Expected audience for signed JWT bearer tokens
.TP
.B \-\-ws\-max\-clock\-skew\-seconds <SECONDS>
Maximum clock skew when validating signed JWT bearer tokens
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Print help (see a summary with '\-h')
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR codex (1),
.BR codex\-app\-server\-daemon (1),
.BR codex\-app\-server\-proxy (1),
.BR codex\-app\-server\-generate\-ts (1),
.BR codex\-app\-server\-generate\-json\-schema (1)
