.TH LORD 1 "June 2026" "exec" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
lord \- run Codex as a Unix command, repository agent, or directory agent
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY lord
.RI [ option | @option ]...
.RI [ prompt ...]
.YS
.SY lord
.RI [ option | @option ]...
.RI [ prompt ...]
<
.I input
.YS
.SY pray
.RI [ pattern ]
.YS
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lord
is a wrapper around
.BR "codex exec" .
It chooses an AGENTS profile, adds runtime permission rules, chooses a Codex
sandbox, and runs the prompt through Codex.
.PP
The command has three modes:
.TP
.B unix
Command-filter mode.  Standard input and command-line arguments are treated as
the input to a text transformation, like
.BR grep ,
.BR sed ,
.BR awk ,
.BR sort ,
or
.BR jq
with intelligence added.  Output should be only the answer.
.TP
.B repo
Git worktree mode.  The current directory is treated as a repository that may
be inspected and edited.  Results are left as local changes for inspection with
.BR "git diff" .
.TP
.B non-git
Directory mode.  The current directory is treated as an ordinary directory,
usually for information gathering.  It is read-only by default.
.PP
If no mode is supplied,
.B lord
uses
.B unix
mode when stdin is present,
.B repo
mode inside a Git worktree, and
.B non-git
mode otherwise.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR -v ", " --verbose
Print verbose wrapper behavior and run Codex without capturing output.
.TP
.BR -f ", " --force ", " --dont-panic
In repo mode, temporarily move an existing
.I AGENTS.md
aside and install the selected profile as
.IR AGENTS.md .
Without this option an existing
.I AGENTS.md
is left in place.
.TP
.BR --fast ", " --quick ", " @fast ", " @quick
Request low Codex reasoning effort.  This is the speed-biased setting.
.TP
.BR --accurate ", " --careful ", " @accurate ", " @careful
Request high Codex reasoning effort.
.TP
.BR --very-careful ", " --xhigh ", " @very-careful ", " @xhigh
Request extra-high Codex reasoning effort.
.TP
.BR --effort " " LEVEL ", " --thinking " " LEVEL ", " --effort= LEVEL ", " --thinking= LEVEL
.TQ
.BR @effort= LEVEL ", " @thinking= LEVEL
Set Codex reasoning effort explicitly.
.I LEVEL
must be
.BR low ,
.BR medium ,
.BR high ,
or
.BR xhigh .
.TP
.BR -R ", " --no-read
Tell the agent not to inspect files unless their contents were supplied by the
user.  Also forces a read-only Codex sandbox.
.TP
.BR -W ", " --no-write
Tell the agent not to create, modify, rename, or delete files.
.TP
.BR -w ", " --write
Permit writes when the selected mode would otherwise default to read-only.
.TP
.BR -X ", " --no-exec
Tell the agent not to run shell commands.
.TP
.BR -x ", " --exec
Permit command execution.  Before running Codex,
.B lord
removes PATH entries under
.I $HOME
whose parent directories contain
.I private
or
.IR secret .
.TP
.BR --unix ", " --command ", " @unix ", " @command
Select
.B unix
mode.
.TP
.BR --repo ", " --git ", " @repo ", " @git
Select
.B repo
mode.
.TP
.BR --non-git ", " --directory ", " @non-git ", " @directory
Select
.B non-git
mode.
.TP
.BR --agents= PROFILE ", " @agents= PROFILE
Select an AGENTS profile.  Known aliases include
.BR unix ,
.BR command ,
.BR unix-command ,
.BR code ,
.BR repo ,
.BR git ,
.BR bible ,
.BR nameless ,
and
.BR we-the-nameless .
Values containing a slash are interpreted as file paths.  Other values are
matched against Markdown files in
.IR $EXEC/etc/lord .
.TP
.B @bible
.TQ
.B @nameless
.TQ
.B @we-the-nameless
Select the Bible profile.
.TP
.B @yhwh
Select
.B non-git
mode and pass
.B --skip-git-repo-check
to Codex.
.TP
.B @echo
Print the
.B codex exec
command that would be run instead of running it.
.TP
.BI @ flag
Pass
.BI -- flag
through to
.BR "codex exec" .
.SH MODES AND PERMISSIONS
.SS unix mode
The default profile is
.IR AGENTS-unix.md .
Writes and command execution default to disabled.
.B lord
passes
.B --skip-git-repo-check
and
.B "-s read-only"
to Codex.
.PP
This mode is for software-2.0 command-line tools: prompts describe
transformations, stdin and argv are the input, and stdout is the product.
The profile asks the agent to avoid greetings, summaries, markdown, commentary,
and explanations unless explicitly requested.
.PP
The Unix profile also defines agent-level conventions for recursive,
in-place, and dry-run requests:
.B --recursive
or
.B -r
means to consider files below the current directory;
.B --in-place
or
.B -i
means to edit matching files only in a clean Git tree, treating an untracked
.I AGENTS.md
as clean; and
.B --dry-run
or
.B -n
means to print a Git-style patch instead of editing.
These are instructions to the agent, not options parsed by the
.B lord
shell wrapper.
.SS repo mode
The default profile is
.IR AGENTS-code.md .
Writes and command execution default to enabled.
The Codex sandbox is
.B workspace-write
unless writes are disabled, in which case it is
.BR read-only .
.PP
In repo mode,
.B lord
installs the selected profile as
.I AGENTS.md
in the working directory for the duration of the Codex run.  If
.B --force
is used and an
.I AGENTS.md
already exists, it is moved to a temporary file and restored on exit.
.PP
The code profile describes repository and directory engineering preferences:
reduce fundamental concepts, prefer correctness and readability over brevity,
separate data, algorithms, presentation, persistence, interfaces, and
configuration, favor declarative data, avoid unnecessary abstractions, preserve
stable APIs, and keep Git history coherent.
.SS non-git mode
The default profile is
.IR AGENTS-code.md .
Writes and command execution default to disabled.
.B lord
passes
.B --skip-git-repo-check
to Codex and uses a
.B read-only
sandbox unless writes are enabled with
.BR --write .
.PP
Non-git mode is repo-style behavior without assuming there is a Git repository:
understand the directory, inspect files when allowed, and modify local files
only when explicitly permitted.
.SH PROFILES
.TP
.I AGENTS-unix.md
The Unix command profile.  It makes
.B lord
act like a terse command-line filter: transform input, preserve formatting when
reasonable, prefer shell/POSIX/Python-stdlib tools, and print only the requested
output.
.TP
.I AGENTS-code.md
The general code profile for Git repositories and ordinary directories.  It
documents the author's engineering taste: conceptual simplicity, bottom-up
mechanisms, strong naming, orthogonal APIs, automation, Unix composability,
and explanations that identify the responsible layer and invariant.
.TP
.I AGENTS-bible.md
The We the Nameless profile.  It is repo-style mode for a LuaLaTeX Bible
translation, source-critical edition, commentary, typography project, and
software project.  It emphasizes semantic markup over presentation, data and
generation over repetition, historical nuance, typography as commentary,
Hebrew and source-critical structure, and conservative refactoring.
.PP
.B pray
prints exactly one matching profile from
.I $EXEC/etc/lord
or reports all ambiguous matches.  Its default pattern is
.BR unix .
.SH INPUT HANDLING
If stdin is not a terminal,
.B lord
reads it completely.  In
.B unix
and
.B non-git
mode that stdin is sent to Codex after the selected profile and runtime rules.
In
.B repo
mode the prompt is passed as a normal
.B codex exec
prompt after the temporary
.I AGENTS.md
link is installed.
.PP
When stdin is absent outside repo mode,
.B lord
constructs a prompt containing the selected AGENTS profile, runtime rules, and
the user prompt.
.SH OUTPUT AND CACHE
Without
.B --verbose
or
.BR @echo ,
.B lord
captures Codex stdout, prints it, and writes a copy to
.I $HOME/.cache/lord
using a timestamped filename.
.PP
If Codex exits non-zero,
.B lord
prints Codex stderr and returns the failing status.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B EXEC
Root of the exec checkout.  If unset,
.B lord
derives it from the location of the
.B lord
script.
.TP
.B PATH
Used to find
.BR codex ,
.BR git ,
and other commands.  With
.BR --exec ,
private or secret home-directory entries are removed before Codex is invoked.
.TP
.B HOME
Used for the output cache and private-path detection.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I $EXEC/bin/lord
The main wrapper.
.TP
.I $EXEC/bin/pray
Profile lookup helper.
.TP
.I $EXEC/etc/lord/AGENTS-*.md
Profiles consumed by
.B lord
and
.BR pray .
.TP
.I $EXEC/share/man/man1/lord.1
This manual page.
.TP
.I $HOME/.cache/lord
Timestamped captured outputs.
.SH EXAMPLES
.EX
echo INPUT | lord "uppercase it"
lord --repo "fix the failing test"
lord --non-git --write "rename these files consistently"
lord @agents=bible "explain the semantic layer before editing"
lord @echo --repo "show me the codex command"
pray unix
.EE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR codex (1),
.BR git (1),
.BR man (1)
